>> Ifill: A BATTLE OVER ECONOMIC
PRIORITIES, FROM TAXES TO PUBLIC
WORKS, PRESIDENT OBAMA DELIVERS
HIS BUDGET TO CAPITOL HILL.
PAYCHECKS GO FARTHER.
WE KNOW FAMILIES ARE STRUGGLING
TO AFFORD CHILDCARE, STRUGGLING
TO AFFORD TO SEND THEIR KIDS TO
COLLEGE.
SO W WHAT WE HAVE IS A
COMPREHENSIVE PROPOSAL TO MAKE
PAYCHECKS GO FURTHER.
>> Ifill: GOOD EVENING, I'M GWEN
IFILL.
JUDY WOODRUFF IS AWAY.
ALSO AHEAD THIS MONDAY, ONE
JOURNALIST RELEASED, TWO STILL
BEHIND BARS, THE UNEVEN FATE OF
JAILED JOURNALISTS IN EGYPT.
AND A MASS DEATH SENTENCE IS
IMPOSED ON VIOLENT PROTESTORS.
>> Ifill: THEN, FROM SNEYDILAND
TO THE HEARTLAND, THE RETURN OF
THE MEASLES ONCE THOUGHT TO BE
ERADICATED.
THE VACCINATION DEBATE THAT MAY
HAVE SPARKED THE LATEST
CONTAGIOUS OUTBREAK.
PLUS, DIRECTOR RICHARD LINKLATER
ON USING THE  PASSAGE OF TIME AS
A STORY-TELLING DEVICE IN MAKING
HIS OSCAR-NOMINATED FILM
"BOYHOOD."
>> ALL FILM IS A CONSTRUCT.
IT'S JUST HOW YOU WANT TO BE
PERCEIVED AND HOW YOU WANT AN
AUDIENCE TO TAKE IN YOUR
PARTICULAR STORY.
I WANT AN AUDIENCE TO LOSE
THEMSELVES IN THE STORY I'M
TRYING TO TELL AND MAKE IT FEEL
LIKE IT FEELS LIKE YOUR OWN LIFE
TO SOME DEGREE.
>> Ifill: THOSE ARE SOME OF THE
STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S PBS "NEWSHOUR."
>> Ifill: THE LATEST WINTER
STORM DUMPED FRESH MISERY ACROSS
NEW ENGLAND TODAY, AFTER
POUNDING ON THE PLAINS AND
MIDWEST.
WELL OVER A FOOT OF SNOW FELL IN
THE CHICAGO AREA AND AROUND THE
GREAT LAKES REGION.
A NUMBER OF SCHOOLS CANCELLED
MONDAY CLASSES.
AS THE STORM PUSHED EAST, NEW
YORK STATE AND NEW ENGLAND
BRACED FOR THE BLOW WITH MORE
THAN A FOOT FORECAST FOR BOSTON.
MAYOR MARTY WALSH SAID PLOWS ARE
STILL CLEARING LAST WEEK'S BIG
SNOW.
>> THIS WEEKEND MICHAEL DENNEHY
AND HIS TEAM REMOVED ABOUT 6,000
TRUCKLOADS OF SNOW OFF THE
STREETS OF BOSTON.
AS YOU CAN SEE BEFORE THE STORM
TODAY THERE WAS A LOT OF SNOW
OUT THERE.
SHOWS YOU HOW MUCH WE GOT DURING
THE BLIZZARD.
SO WE'RE GOING TO CONTINUE THAT
EFFORT AFTER THIS SNOW STORM IS
CLEARED UP.
WE'RE GOING TO CONTINUE TO TRY
TO GET AS MUCH SNOW OFF THE
STREET AS POSSIBLE PARTICULARLY
WITH THE VERY COLD WEATHER.
>> Ifill: THE STORM ALSO
DISRUPTEAIR D TRAVEL, WITH A
COMBINED 6,200 FLIGHTS CANCELED
SINCE SUNDAY.
MANY OF THOSE WERE SUPPOSED TO
BRING SUPER BOWL FANS BACK FROM
ARIZONA.
WALL STREET STARTED THE MONTH ON
A HIGH NOTE.
A GAIN IN OIL PRICES OUTWEIGHED
THE NEWS THAT MANUFACTURING GREW
IN DECEMBER AT ITS SLOWEST PACE
IN A YEAR.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
GAINED 196 POINTS TO CLOSE AT
17,361; THE NASDAQ ROSE 41 TO
CLOSE AT 4,676; AND THE S&P 500
ADDED NEARLY 26 POINTS TO FINISH
NEAR 2,121.
THERE WAS NO SIGN OF A BREAK
TODAY IN THE STANDOFF OVER A
JORDANIAN PILOT, HELD BY
"ISLAMIC STATE" MILITANTS IN
SYRIA.
THE GOVERNMENT OF JORDAN HAS
AGREED TO THE GROUP'S DEMAND TO
RELEASE A CONVICTED TERRORIST,
BUT IT SAID AGAIN TODAY IT NEEDS
REASSURANCE.
>> ( translated ): WE DEMAND AND
EMPHASIZE OUR DEMAND FOR PROOF
OF LIFE OF THE PILOT MUATH AL-
KASEASBEH, THEN WE CAN SPEAK
ABOUT FURTHER STEPS.
WE FOLLOW UP AROUND THE CLOCK
AND OUR SECURITY ORGANIZATIONS
ARE FOLLOWING UP ON THIS CASE.
>> Ifill: FEARS FOR THE PILOT'S
SAFETY RAN EVEN HIGHER AFTER A
SECOND JAPANESE HOSTAGE
JOURNALIST KENJI GOTO WAS
BEHEADED OVER THE WEEKEND.
IN UKRAINE, PRO-RUSSIAN REBELS
PRESSED THEIR OFFENSIVE ACROSS
MULTIPLE FRONTS TODAY.
CIVILIANS RAN FOR COVER AS
ROCKETS STREAKED ACROSS TOWNS IN
THE EMBATTLED PROVINCE OF
DONETSK.
MANY SCAVENGED THE RUBBLE FOR
BELONGINGS AS THEY PREPARED TO
EVACUATE FROM THEIR HOMES.
MEANWHILE, REBEL LEADERS
ANNOUNCED PLANS TO SWELL THEIR
RANKS TO 100,000 FIGHTERS.
>> ( translated ): WE WILL
MOBILIZE ENOUGH PEOPLE TO THE
ARMY, BECAUSE CONSIDERING THE
SITUATION ON THE FRONTS AND WHAT
UKRAINE DOES, WE WILL HAVE TO
MOBILIZE PEOPLE WHO ARE ABLE TO
CARRY WEAPONS.
AFTER TODAY'S EVENTS IT HAS
BECOME URGENT.
>> Ifill: ALMOST 2,000 PEOPLE
HAVE FLED THE FIGHTING IN THE
LAST FEW DAYS.
THE FIRST LARGE-SCALE EBOLA
VACCINE TRIALS BEGAN TODAY IN
LIBERIA.
ABOUT 600 VOLUNTEERS ARE TAKING
PART IN THE EFFORT, WHICH
ULTIMATELY MAY INVOLVE 27,000
PEOPLE.
THEY'RE TESTING TWO POTENTIAL
VACCINES, ONE DEVELOPED BY THE
U.S. NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF
HEALTH AND THE OTHER BY CANADIAN
HEALTH OFFICIALS.
IT'S BEEN 800 YEARS SINCE
REBELLIOUS BARONS FORCED AN
ENGLISH KING TO ACCEPT ESSENTIAL
RIGHTS UNDER LAW.
THEY WERE ENSHRINED IN THE MAGNA
CARTER.
AND TODAY, THE SURVIVING COPIES
FROM THAT SUMMER OF 1,215 WENT
ON DISPLAY IN LONDON.
SALLY BIDDULPH OF INDEPENDENT
TELEVISION NEWS REPORTS.
>> Reporter: THE FOUNDING
DOCUMENT BEHIND OUR RULE OF LAW
AND CITIZENS RIGHTS.
THESE FOUR REMAINING ORIGINAL
COPIES, HAVE BEEN BROUGHT
TOGETHER FOR THE FIRST TIME IN
EIGHT CENTURIES TWO FROM THE
BRITISH LIBRARY, AND ONE FROM
EACH OF THE CATHEDRALS IN
SALISBURY AND LINCOLN.
>> IT'S UNPRECEDENTED FOR
SALISBURY TO MOVE ITS MAGNA
CARTA OUT OF THE CATHEDRAL.
WE DID IT FOR A LITTLE WHILE
JUST DURING THE SECOND WORLD WAR
WHEN WE PUT IT IN A QUARREY IN
WILSHIRE, BUT YOU CAN GUARANTEE
THAT OUR COPY HAS NEVER LEFT
WILSHIRE IN 800 YEARS.
>> Reporter: WHEN KING JOHN
STAMPED THE MAGNA CARTA IN
RUNNYMEDE WITH HIS ROYAL SEAL IN
1215, LITTLE DID HE KNOW IT
WOULD HERALD PARLIAMENTARY
DEMOCRACY.
>> WELL, THE MAGNA CARTA'S
GLOBAL RESONANCE ESTABLISHED FOR
THE FIRST TIME THAT EVERYBODY
WAS SUBJECT TO THE LAW.
NOBODY, NOT EVEN THE KING, WAS
ABOVE THE LAW AND THAT'S A
PRINCIPLE WAS HAS, WHICH HAS
STOOD TIME AND IS STILL VALID
TODAY.
>> Reporter: THE MAGNA CARTA
MANUSCRIPTS ARE ONLY TOGETHER ON
DISPLAY FOR THREE DAYS WITH
TICKETS TO THE EVENT DRAWN FROM
A BALLOT.
TRANSLATED FROM THE LATIN IT
MEANS GREAT CHARTER AND GREAT IT
WAS, IT'S IMPACT STILL
RESONATING DOWN THE AGES.
>> Ifill: WEEKS AFTER KING JOHN
ACCEPTED THE MAGNA CARTA, THE
POPE VOIDED IT, BUT IT IS
FUNDAMENTAL TENETS WERE
REAFFIRMED IN SUCCEEDING
DOCUMENTS.
BACK IN THIS COUNTRY, UNION
WORKERS AT NINE OIL REFINERIES
AND CHEMICAL PLANTS WERE OUT ON
STRIKE FOR A SECOND DAY.
THOSE ARE THE FIRST SUCH
WALKOUTS SINCE 1980, AND THEY'RE
AFFECTING PLANTS THAT ACCOUNT
FOR ABOUT TEN PERCENT OF THE
NATION'S REFINING CAPACITY.
THE WORKERS ARE DEMANDING HIGHER
PAY, BETTER BENEFITS, AND SAFER
WORK CONDITIONS.
AND, THE NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS
CELEBRATED THEIR DRAMATIC WIN IN
SUPER BOWL 49, WHICH TURNED OUT
TO BE THE HIGHE-RATSTED EVER.
114 MILLION VIEWERS.
THE PATRIOTS EDGED THE SEATTLE
SEAHAWKS, 28 TO 24, LAST NIGHT,
IN GLENDALE, ARIZONA.
IT'S THEIR FOURTH CHAMPIONSHIP
IN SIX TRIES, SINCE 2000.
A VICTORY PARADE IS DELAYED
AS THE CITY DIGS OUT FROM ITS
RECORD SNOWFALL.
STILL TO COME ON THE
"NewsHour", POLICY PRIORITIES
AND THE PRESIDENT'S NEW BUDGET.
EGYPT'S COMPLICATED CRACKDOWN ON
THE MUSLIM BROTHERHOOD.
THE ALARMING NEW SPREAD OF AN
OLD DISEASE, THE MEASLES.
AND PLAYING WITH TIME IN RICHARD
LINKLATER'S OSCAR-NOMINATED
"BOYHOOD."
>> Ifill: THE PRESIDENT UNVIELED
HIS FOUR TRILLION DOLLAR
SPENDING PLAN.
SETTING OFF WHAT'S SURE TO BE
MONTHS OF POLITICAL WRANGLING
WITH THE G.O.P. CONTROLLED
CONGRESS.
MORE TAXES, MORE SPENDING,
PRESIDENT OBAMA DELIRS HVEIS
BUDGET TO CAPITOL HILL WITH A
FOUR TRILLION DOLLAR STICKER
PRICE.
THE BOXES ROLLED DOWN
CONGRESSIONAL HALLS THIS
MORNING.
WHILE ACROSS TOWN, THE MAN WHO
SENT THEM APPEALED FOR A FAIR
HEARING.
>> WE'VE GOT TO PUT POLITICS
ASIDE, PASS A BUDGET THAT FUNDS
OUR NATIONAL SECURITY PRIORITIES
AT HOME AND ABROAD AND GIVES
MIDDLE-CLASS FAMILIES THE
SECURITY THEY NEED TO GET AHEAD
IN THE NEW ECONOMY.
>> Ifill: THE CENTERPIECE OF THE
PRESIDENT'S PLAN IS A
SIX YEAR, $678 BILLION PUBLIC
WORKS PROGRAM TO REPAIR
HIGHWAYS, BRIDGES AND TRANSIT
SYSTEMS.
HALF OF THE MONEY WOULD COME
FROM A ONE-TIME TAX ON U.S.
COMPANIES OVERSEAS PROFITS.
THE BUDGET ALSO CALLS FOR,
RAISING THE CAPITAL GAINS TAX
RATE TO 28% FOR WEALTHIER
AMERICANS.
AND USING THE REVENUE FOR $320
BILLION IN LOW AND MIDDLE-CLASS
TAX BREAKS.
THERE'S ALSO $60 BILLION FOR
FREE COMMUNITY COLLEGE.
ALL TOLD, MR. OBAMA WANTS TO
INCREASE DEFENSE AND DOMESTIC
SPENDING BY SEVEN PERCENT.
THAT WOULD BREAK MANDATORY CAPS
IMPOSED IN 2011, UNDER THE SO-
CALLED SEQUESTRATION.
>> I'M NOT GOING TO ACCEPT A
BUDGET THAT LOCKS IN
SEQUESTRATION GOING FORWARD.
IT WOULD BE BAD FOR OUR SECURITY
AND BAD FOR OUR GROWTH.
>> Ifill: THE PRESIDENT REJECTED
REPUBLICANS' CALLS TO LIFT THE
CAPS FOR DEFENSE SPENDING ONLY.
AND THEY IMMEDIATELY ACCUSED HIM
OF REVERTING TO TAX-AND-SPEND
POLICIES THAT ENDANGER THE
ECONOMY.
SENATE MAJORITY LEADER MITCH
MCCONNELL.
>> RHETORICALLY, AT LEAST, WE
HEAR THE WHITE HOUSE ECHO
REPUBLICAN CALLS FOR POLICIES
AIMED AT HELPING THE MIDDLE
CLASS BUT THEN WE SEE THE WHITE
HOUSE PUSH MORE TO HAVE THE
STEAL, POP-DOWN POLICIES FAVORED
BY POLITICAL BOSSES ON THE LEFT.
>> Ifill: HOUSE SPEAKER JOHN
BOEHNER SAID THERE'S NO
PROVISION FOR EVER BALANCING THE
BUDGET.
REPUBLICAN LEADERS PROMISE TO
OFFER THEIR OWN PLAN THIS
SPRING.
WE DIG A LITTLE DEEPER INTO THE
BUDGET, BEGINNING AT THE WHITE
HOUSE.
I SPOKE WITH SHAUN DONOVAN,
DIRECTOR OF THE OFFICE OF
MANAGEMENT AND BUDGET, A SHORT
TIME AGO.
DIRECTOR DONOVAN, WELCOME.
MUCH OF THE ADVANCE, DISCUSSION
ABOUT THE PRESIDENT'S BUDGET
INCLUDING WHAT WE SEE IN THE
ACTUAL DOCUMENT FOCUSES ON THE
PLIGHT OR KERNS OF THE MIDDLE
CLASS.
WHY IS YOUR APPROACH BETTER THAN
ANY OTHER ON THAT?
>> BECAUSE I THINK WHAT WE'VE
REALLY DONE IS LOOK AT WHAT ARE
THE CORE THINGS THAT ARE EATING
AWAY AT THE FORTUNES OF THE
MIDDLE CLASS IN THIS COUNTRY,
AND FIRST OF ALL WE HAVE TO MAKE
SURE THAT PAYCHECKS GO FARTHER.
WE KNOW THAT FAMILIAR HIS ARE
STRUGGLING TO AFFORD CHILDCARE,
STRUGGLING TO AFFORD TO SEND
THEIR KIDS TO COLLEGE.
SO WHAT WE HAVE IS A
COMPREHENSIVE PROPOSAL TO MAKE
PAYCHECKS GO FARTHER TODAY.
AT THE SAME TIME, WE'VE GOT TO
LOOK TO THE FUTURE AND SAY, WHAT
ARE THE WAYS WE'RE GOING TO GROW
THE GOOD MIDDLE CLASS JOBS OF
THE FUTURE?
THAT MEANS WE'VE GOT TO INVEST
IN MANUFACTURING, OUR
INFRASTRUCTURE.
WE'VE GOT TO MAKE SURE WE REMAIN
THE BEST IN THE WORLD AT NEW
THINGS, THAT MEANS RESEARCH AND
DEVELOPMENT.
WE HAVE TO MAKE SURE THAT AS WE
CREATE THE JOBS IN THE FUTURE
THAT AMERICANS ARE READY TO TAKE
THEM, SO IN THIS BUDGET WE
DOUBLED THE NUMBER OF SLOTS FOR
JOB TRAINING, DOUBLED THE NUMBER
OF APPRENTICESHIPS AND WE MADE
SURE THAT COMMUNITY COLLEGE IS
GOING TO BE LIKE HIGH SCHOOL IS
TODAY.
IN THE FUTURE, EVERYONE SHOULD
BE ABLE TO GO TO COMMUNITY
COLLEGE AND THAT THE WHY FREE
COMMUNITY COLLEGE IS A KEY PART
OF THE BUDGET.
>> Ifill: WHEN YOU USE THE
WORD "INVEST," REPUBLICANS HEAR
SPEND AND TAX.
HOW DO YOU HOPE TO MAKE PROGRESS
WITH YOUR PRIORITIES IF THE --
IF THAT'S THE TRANSLATION OF
"INVEST."
>> IN TEN YEARS WE ACHIEVE
$1.8 TRILLION IN DEFICIT
REDUCTION, THAT'S UNDENIABLE IF
YOU LOOK AT THE NUMBERS.
SECOND, WHAT WE'RE DOING IS
TAKING A BIPARTISAN EXAMPLE, THE
SO-CALLED MURRAY-RYAN DEAL THAT
WAS REACHED TWO YEARS AGO, WE'RE
TAKING THAT AND BUILDING ON IT.
WE'RE SAYING LET'S GET RID OF
HARMFUL CUTS CALLED
SEQUESTRATION AND DO THEM DOLLAR
FOR DOLLAR ON THE DEFENSE SIDE
AND PAY FOR THEM ON REVENUE SIDE
OVERLONG TERM.
THAT MADE PROGRESS TWO YEARS AGO
ON THE BUDGETED AND THE MODEL WE
BUILD ON.
>> Ifill: YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT
RAISING TAXONS CORPORATE
PROFITS, RAISING TAXONS NADGES
FIRMS AND INHER TABS TAXES.
WHY ISN'T THAT AS SOME
REPUBLICANS ARE DESCRIBING I
THINK PAUL RYAN CALLED IT ENVY
ECONOMICS OR CHASES WAR?
>> AN EXAMPLE ON CAPITAL GAINS,
RIGHT NOW A FAMILY FORCED TO
SELL, WHETHER THEIR HOME OR A
BUSINESS, BEFORE THEY DIE,
THEY'RE TAXED AT REGULAR RATES.
IF A FAMILY IS WEALTHY ENOUGH TO
BE ABLE TO HOLD ON TO THAT ASSET
AND PASS IT ON TO THEIR KIDS,
THEY'RE TAXED AT A MUCH, MUCH
LOWER RATE ON THAT ASSET.
SO WHAT WE'RE REALLYING TO
ACHIEVE HERE IS FAIRNESS, AND AS
THE PRESIDENT SAID, WE'RE ASKING
THE WEALTHIEST IN THE COUNTRY TO
PAY A LITTLE BIT MORE.
99% OF THE COST OF THE CAPITAL
GAINS PROPOSAL WOULD COME FROM
THE WEALTHIEST 1% IN THE
COUNTRY.
WE THINK THAT IS A VERY
REASONABLE PROPOSAL.
SO WE'RE PROPOSING THAT.
AT THE SAME TIME, WE'RE
PROPOSING HUNDREDS OF BILLIONS
OF DOLLARS OF SAVINGS ON THE
SPENDING SIDE AS WELL, SO WE'RE
PROPOSING A BALANCED PLAN THAT
WE THINK HAS A REAL CHANCE OF
GETTING DONE THIS YEAR.
>> Ifill: DO YOU HAVE ANY
REASON TO BELIEVE THAT THERE IS
ANY CONSENSUS OR ANY WILLINGNESS
ON THE PART OF THE PEOPLE WHO
ARE GOING TO RECEIVE THIS BUDGET
ON CAPITOL HILL FOR MIDDLE
GROUND ON THINGS LIKE
INFRASTRUCTURE, TRANSPORTATION
SPENDING?
DO YOU SEE ANY ROOM THERE?
>> Ifill: ABSOLUTELY, AND I DO
THINK, FIRST OF ALL, THE
STRUCTURE THAT WE'RE FOLLOWING
IS BASED ON MURRAY-RYAN.
IT'S ESTABLISHED BIPARTISAN
PRECEDENT WE'RE BUILDING ON.
SECOND, THERE ARE LOTS OF AREAS
IF YOU LOOK MORE CLOSELY WHERE
WE'RE BUILDING ON BIPARTISAN
IDEAS.
COMMUNITY COLLEGE IS SOMETHING
THAT'S BEEN PURSUED AT THE
FEDERAL LEVEL AND AT THE STATE
LEVEL, LIKE MANY TENNESSEE, ON A
BIPARTISAN BASIS.
THE PROPOSAL THAT WE HAVE FOR A
SECOND EARNER TAX CREDIT HAS
ACTUALLY BEEN SPONSORED BY ONE
OF THE REPUBLICAN LEADERS IN THE
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
INFRASTRUCTURE HAS TRADITIONALLY
BEEN A BIPARTISAN AREA AND WE'RE
LINKING IT TO INTERNATIONAL TAX
REFORM THAT HAS BOTH DEMOCRATIC
AND REPUBLICAN SPONSORS, AND I
COULD GO ON.
THERE'S A LONG LIST OF AREAS
WHERE THERE'S THE POTENTIAL FOR
BIPARTISAN AGREEMENT.
>> Ifill: HOW ABOUT PENTAGON
SPENDING OR HOMELAND SECITYUR
SPENDING, ROLLING BACK THE
ACROSS THE BOARD BUDGET CUTS YOU
TALKED ABOUT?
>> YOU DON'T NEED TO TAKE MY
WORD FOR IT, GWEN.
IF YOU LISTEN TO THE TESTIMONY
THE JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF GAVE
THIS PAST WEEK, THEY SAID THE
MOST DANGEROUS THREATS WE FACE
AROUND THE THE WORLD IS SE
QUESTION --SEQUESTRATION.
IF WE CAN'T INVEST IN THE CUTS
WE WON'T INVEST IN THE CRITICAL
THINGS WE NEED TO KEEP FOLKS
SAFE OVERSEAS AND AT HOME.
NOW WE'RE HAVING A FIGHT ABOUT
WHETHER WE'RE GOING TO FUND THE
DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY
FOR A FULL YEAR.
WE NEED TO DO THAT AND INVEST IN
CYBERSECURITY AND OTHER THINGS,
THE TECHNOLOGY OF THE FUTURE,
WHERE THE WARS OF THE FUTURE
WILL BE FOUGHT.
>> SO.
>> Ifill: SO THE BATTLE IS
JOINED ON THE BUDGET FRONT.
SHAUN DONOVAN, DIRECTOR OF THE
OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT AND BUDGET,
THANK YOU FOR BEING HERE.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Ifill: FOR THE REPUBLICAN
VIEW FROM CAPITOL HILL, I'M
JOINED NOW BY IOWA SENATOR CHUCK
GRASSLEY.
HE SERVES ON THE SENATE BUDGET
AND FINANCE COMMITTEES AS WELL
AS THE JOINT COMMITTEE ON
TAXATION.
WELCOME, SENATOR .
THE PRESIDENT SAID TODAY HE
WELCOMES G.O.P. IDEAS BUT THAT
THE NUMBERS HAVE TO ADD UP.
WHAT IS YOUR REACTION TO HIS
BUDGET?
>> WELL, FIRST OF ALL, I THINK
YOU HAVE TO LOOK AT NOT ONLY
THIS BUDGET BUT PAST BUDGETS
THAT HAVE BEEN PUT BEFORE THE
CONGRESS FOR A SF INSTANCES -- E
EVERY INSTANCE OVER THE LAST
FIVE OR SIX YEARS -- THERE
HASN'T BEEN ONE REPUBLICAN OR
ONE DEMOCRAT VOTE TO APPROVE OF
THE PRESIDENT'S BUDGET.
SO I THINK YOU HAVE TO LOOK AT
IT THAT THIS BUDGET PUT FORTH BY
THE PRESIDENT ISN'T SERIOUS, BUT
EVEN IF IT WERE A SERIOUS
BUDGET, THE PRESIDENT PROPOSES
AND CONGRESS DISPOSES.
THERE'S OBVIOUSLY GOING TO BE
SOME AREAS WHERE THE PRESIDENT
AND THE CONGRESS WOULD AGREE,
LIKE, FOR INSTANCE, NOT HAVING
SEQUESTRATION BECAUSE OF
NATIONAL DEFENSE BECAUSE
NATIONAL DEFENSE IS THE NUMBER
ONE RESPONSIBILITY OF THE
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT, SO I THINK
YOU WILL FIND MORE SPENDING ON
DEFENSE.
THAT AREA, WE AGREE WITH THE
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES.
BUT IN OTHER AREAS OF DOMESTIC
SPENDING, I THINK YOU'RE GOING
TO FIND SEQUESTRATION, IF IT
ISN'T FOLLOWED, IT SURELY ISN'T
GOING TO BE MODIFIED TO THE
EXTENT THE PRESIDENT WANTED TO
MODIFY IT.
I'LL STOP WITH THIS BY SAYING
YOU CAN'T CONSIDER A BUDGET AS
OMB DIRECTOR SAID REDUCING
SPENDING BY $1.8 TRILLION WHEN
IT ACTUALLY INCREASES THE
DEFICIT FROM $18 BILLION TO
$26 BILLION OVER A PERIOD OF
THESE TEN YEARS.
THAT'S AN $8 TRILLION INCREASE
IN THE DEBT, AND THE PRESIDENT
HAS ALREADY INCREASED THE
NATIONAL DEBT SINCE HE'S BEEN
PRESIDENT BY AT LEAST
$6 TRILLION.
>> Ifill: THE DIRECTOR SAID HE
SEEN WHAT YOU'VE SEEN AND LEAVES
REPUBLICANS OUGHT TO PUT THEIR
PRIORITIES ON THE TABLE.
WHAT ARE THE REPUBLICANS
PRIORITIES IN GENERAL?
>> Ifill: WE WOULD DISAGREE
WITH THE PRESIDENT ON TAXES
BECAUSE WHEN YOU HAVE A LOT OF
PEOPLE LEFT IN THE LABOR FORCE
AND YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT HELPING
THE MIDDLE CLASS, THE ONLY WAY
YOU'RE GOING TO HELP THE MIDDLE
CLASS IS NOT BY THESE ENVY
POLITICS AND REDISTRIBUTING
WEALTH.
YOU'RE GOING TO HELP THE MIDDLE
CLASS BY GROWTH, AND YOU GOTTEN
GET ECONOMIC GROWTH BY
INCREASING TAXES BY TAKING CAN
TALL OUT OF THE ECONOMY.
YOU'VE GOT TO PUT MORE CAPITAL
INTO THE ECONOMY.
SO WE WOULD DISAGREE YOU SHOULD
HAVE TAX INCREASES.
WE'RE GOING TO AGREE WITH THE
PRESIDENT ON NATIONAL DEFENSE
AND PROBABLY DISAGREE WITH THE
PRESIDENT ON EXPENDITURES FOR
DOMESTIC PROGRAMS, AND YOU'VE
GOT TO REMEMBER THAT HE DOESN'T
HAVE ANY IDEA WHATSOEVER WHAT TO
DO WITH SOCIAL SECURITY,
MEDICARE AND MEDICAID WHICH IS
ABOUT 40% OF ALL THE EXPENDITURE
RIGHT NOW.
>> Ifill: SO LET ME TRY TO
FIGURE THIS OUT.
INFRASTRUCTURE PROPOSALS HE'S
MAKING ARE OFF THE TABLE IN YOUR
OPINION AS WELL AS SPENDING FOR
WHAT HE CALLS MIDDLE CLASS
ECONOMICS?
>> FIRST OF ALL ON THE
INFRASTRUCTURE, NO.
BY MAY, WE HAVE TO PASS AN
INFRASTRUCTURE BILL AND IT WILL
BE VERIFYING ON THE AGENDA OF
THE REPUBLICAN CONGRESS.
IN REGARD TO HELPING THE MIDDLE
CLASS, YES, WE'LL HELP THE
MIDDLE CLASS BY HAVING ECONOMIC
GROWTH.
OUR PROGRAM WILL BE ONE THAT
GETS ECONOMIC GROWTH ABOVE THE 6
YEAR OR 7 YEAR AVERAGE OF 2.6%.
WE HAVE TO HAVE ECONOMIC GROWTH
OF 3% IF YOU'RE REALLY GOING TO
INCREASE JOBS AND GET MORE
WEALTH INTO THE MIDDLE CLASS.
>> Ifill: I HAVE TO ASK YOU,
SENATOR, ABOUT THE HOMELAND
SECURITY ISSUE IN WHICH BOTH
ACROSS THE BOARD BUDGET CUTS THE
PRESIDENT WOULD LIKE YOU TO LIFT
WHEN IT COMES TO HOMELAND
SECURITY NOT TIED TO IMMIGRATION
REFORM.
WHAT DO YOU SAY ABOUT THAT?
>> WE'RE GOING TO ATTEMPT TO
PASS IN THE UNITED STATES SENATE
UNDOING THE PRESIDENT'S
IMMIGRATION REFORM BECAUSE WE
FEEL HE HAS ACTED
UNCONSTITUTIONALLY, THAT HE
DOESN'T HAVE THE POWER TO DO
WHAT HE DID FOR UNDOCUMENTED
WORKERS, ONLY CONGRESS HAS THAT
POWER.
>> Ifill: SO WHAT DOES THAT
MEAN ABOUT WHAT'S GOING TO
HAPPEN NEXT WITH THAT VOTE?
>> I WON'T KNOW UNTIL WE FIND
OUT IF WE CAN GET A BILL TO THE
PRESIDENT.
IF WE CAN'T GET A BILL TO THE
PRESIDENT, WE'LL GO TO PLAN B,
AND PLAN B HASN'T BEEN FIGURED
OUT YET BECAUSE WE'RE GOING TO
TRY TO DELIVER TO THE AMERICAN
PEOPLE WHAT WE PROMISED TO IN
THE LAST ELECTION THAT WE WERE
GOING TO STOP THE PRESIDENT'S
UNCONSTITUTIONAL ACTIONS ON
IMMIGRATION.
>> Ifill: SENATOR CHUCK
GRASSLEY OF IOWA, THANK YOU VERY
MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Ifill: FOR MORE ON THE
POLITICAL SIDE OF THE BUDGET
DEBATE AND ON THE BUDDING
PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGN, WE TURN
TO OUR NEW WEEKLY POLITICS
DISCUSSION.
WHERE EVERY MONDAY WE'LL HEAR
FROM AMY WALTER OF THE COOK
POLITICAL REPORT, AND NIA-MALIKA
HENDERSON OF "THE WASHINGTON
POST."
THIS OUGHT TO BE FUN.
>> I THINK IT WILL BE, THANK
YOU.
>> Ifill: THE BUDGET ISSUE, IS
THIS A DOCUMENT THE PRESIDENT
SENT UP FOR NEGOTIATION OR JUST
SENDING IT UP TO BE ASPIRATIONAL
TO CAPITOL HILL?
>> YOU SAW FROM THE BACK AND
FORTH THAT THE WHITE HOUSE SAYS
THEY WOULD LIKE IT TO BE A
STARTING POINT FOR NEGOTIATIONS,
BUT WHEN YOU LISTEN TO THE
SENATOR FROM IOWA, IT'S PRETTY
CLEAR THERE'S NOT MUCH ROOM FOR
NEGOTIATION IN THIS AND THAT, AT
THE END OF THE DAY, YES, THIS IS
A STAKE IN THE GROUND FOR THE
PRESIDENT AND F BUILD ON AS WE O
INTO A 2016 ELECTION.
>> RIGHT.
IT'S A COMPANION PIECE OF THE
STATE OF THE UNION ADDRESS WHERE
HE CLAIMED THE TITLE I THINK IN
THAT ADDRESS AS LIBERAL.
ONE OF THE COMMON CRITIQUES OF
THIS PRESIDENT HAD BEEN THAT HE
WOULD GIVE AWAY THE STORE EVEN
BEFORE HE WOULD GET TO THE
NEGOTIATING TABLE.
I THINK IN THIS DOCUMENT HE'S
BEING A BIT BOLDER.
SOME OF THE THINGS ARE WARMED
OVER -- YOU KNOW, THE TAX CUTS
AND TAX HEIGHTS ON THE RICH AND
TRICKLE DOWN OR SPREAD IT OUT
AMONGST THE MIDDLE CLASS.
BUT HE ALSO ISN'T TOUCHING
MEDICARE, HE'S NOT SUCHING
SOCIAL SECURITY THE WAY HE DID
IN OTHER BUDGET DOCUMENTS,
WRARCHGLING MANY IN HIS PARTY.
>> Ifill: HE'S LESS AMBITIOUS
BECAUSE MAYBE IT'S NOT WORTH THE
FIGHT TO BE IN A SECOND TERM.
>> IT'S NOT, DEMOCRATS DON'T
WANT THE FIGHT NOR DO THE
REPUBLICANS.
YOU HAVE THEM UP IN THEIR OWN
RACES AND A HANDFUL HAVE THEIR
OWN RACE IN 2016.
>> Ifill: LOOKING AT THE
POLLING AND THE CONVERSATION
YOU'VE SEEN AND THE POSITIONS
YOU'VE SEEN IN THE LAST FEW DAYS
WHO BENEFITS FROM ROMNEY'S THE Y
BENEFITS FROM HIM DEVELOPING
OUT.
IN 2012 THEY HAD TO WRITE A
WHOLE DOCUMENT FIGURING OUT WHAT
WENT WRONG IN 2012 AND OBVIOUSLY
MITT ROMNEY WAS A BIG PART OF
THAT.
IF HE HAD RUN, IT WOULD BE
RERUNNING WHAT HAPPENED IN 2012.
BROADLY I THINK THE ENTIRE PARTY
BENEFITS.
BUT SPECIFICALLY YOU HAVE TO
LOOK AT THE GOVERNOR'S LANE,
CHRIS CHRISTIE, SCOTT WALKER,
THE MODERATE ESTABLISHMENT LANE,
THEY WILL GET SOME OF THE MONEY
MITT ROMNEY WOULD HAVE LOCKED UP
IF HE HAD RUN.
>> Ifill: RELIEF OR
OPPORTUNITY?
CHRIS CHRISTIE IN LONDON GETTING
HIS FOREIGN POLICY CHOPS
TOGETHER AND IMMEDIATELY
STUMBLING INTO DOMESTIC DEBATE
OVER VACCINATION.
>> YOU CAN'T WIN.
EVEN WHEN YOU GO OVERSEAS, YOU
HAVE TO ASK QUESTIONS HAPPENING
HERE, THE QUESTION ABOUT, OF
COURSE, WHETHER OR NOT VACCINES
SHOULD BE CONSIDERED PARENTS
COULD MAKE THEIR OWN DECISION
ON.
CHRIS CHRISTIE HAS A VERY BIG
PROBLEM AND THAT IS CHRIS
CHRISTIE HAS A BASE PROBLEM.
HE HAS TO EXPAND HIS HORIZONS TO
BRING IN INTERNATIONAL
EXPERIENCE OR CLEAN UP WHATEVER
COMMENTS HE MADE TODAY.
YOU LOOK AT HIS NUMBERS
NATIONALLY AND IN SOME OF THE
VERY IMPORTANT STATES, HIS
DISAPPROVAL RATINGS AMONG
REPUBLICANS ARE IN THE 40s.
SO PEOPLE KNOW HIM IN THE
REPUBLICAN PARTY AND THEY'RE
SAYING WE DON'T LIKE WHAT WE
SEE.
SO I DON'T KNOW HOW MUCH HE
BENEFITS IF PEOPLE AT THE END OF
THE DAY, REPUBLICANS, ARE SAYING
WE JUST DON'T THINK HE'S THE
RIGHT GUY.
>> Ifill: THE PERSON WHO LOOKS
THE BEST IN THE POLLING IS SCOTT
WALKER, THE GOVERNOR OF
WISCONSIN, NOT JEB BUSH
IMMEDIATELY, BUT SCOTT WALKER,
WHO FOR A LOT OF PEOPLE IS A
BRAND-NEW NAME.
>> Ifill: YES, AND GAVE A
GREAT SPEECH IN IOWA AND ROCKET
ETED TO THE TOP OF THIS AND HE
WAS VERY MUCH TOP OF MIND TO
THESE IOWA VOTERS.
HE'S SOMEONE WHO STRADDLES
REALLY THE ESTABLISHMENT WING
BECAUSE HE'S THE SITTING
GOVERNOR NOW AND ALSO SEEN AS A
TEA PARTY GUY AS WELL, HAS DONE
WELL IN THAT STATE, DONE WELL
THIS TERMS OF CONSERVATIVE
GRASSROOTS AND ALSO DOES WELL IN
IOWA BECAUSE IT'S A NEIGHBORING
STATE TO WISCONSIN SO HE
BENEFITS IN THAT WAY.
>> GWEN, YOU KNOW I LOVE POLLS.
I CHECK THEM EVERY DAY.
THEY MAKE ME SO HAPPY.
THIS IS A YEAR OUT.
I'M NOT GOING TO TAKE WHERE
PEOPLE STAND IN TERMS OF THE --
>> Ifill: OKAY, BELL, LET'S
LOOK AT DONORS, EYEBALLS,
CREDIBILITY, WHO IS SHIFTING,
HO --
>> I CAN DO BOTH OF THOSE
THINGS.
THE FRONT TOP LINE NUMBER I
DON'T CARE SO MUCH ABOUT IN THIS
NEW IOWA POLL.
WHAT I DO CARE ABOUT IS LOOKING
AT THE PERCEPTION OF THESE
CANDIDATES IN TERMS OF ARE THEY
LIKED?
DO VOTERS THINK THEY'RE TOO
MODERATE, TOO CONSERVATIVE?
AND CHRISTIE, IN A LOT OF
TROUBLE, AND JEB BUSH, TOO, HIS
RATES HAD 43 REPUBLICANS NOT
LIKING HIM AND 18% UNFAVORABLE
RATING.
THAT'S NOT GOOD FOR SOMEONE
DESIGNATED THE FRONTRUNNER.
BIG PROBLEMS IN THAT STATE.
FOR DONORS, A LOT OF DONORS,
WHAT WE'RE HEARING IS THEY WILL
BE SITTING ON THE SIDELINES,
GIVING SOME HERE AND THERE, BUT
NOT GOING ALL IN FOR JEB BUSH.
>> Ifill: THAT'S NOT
NECESSARILY GREAT NEWS.
>> BUT IT ALSO IS PROBABLY A
LITTLE EARLY TO PUT SO MUCH
FOCUS ON IOWA, TOO.
SOME CONVENTIONAL WISDOM IN IOWA
IS YOU DON'T PARTICULARLY NEED
TO WIN, PLACIAL WITH SOMEONE
LIKE JEB BUSH, THERE ARE REALLY
THREE WINNING TICKETS OUT OF
IOWA, AS IN 2012.
>> Ifill: THE AFFORDABLE CARE
ACT, THERE WILL BE ANOTHER VOTE
LIKE IN THE '60s, ATTEMPTING
TO ROLL BACK ALL OR PART OF THE
HEALTHCARE LAW, IS THAT MOSTLY
DISSATISFIED NEW MEMBERS WHO
WANT A CHEST CHANCE TO PUT THEIR
HANDPRINT ON IT OR STH SETTING
THE REPUBLICAN PARTY ON A PATH
THAT WILL AFFECT IT IN 2016 IN
CONGRESSIONAL AND PRESIDENTIAL?
>> I DON'T THINK THEY WILL HAVE
AN ALTERNATIVE TO ObamaCare.
>> THEY HAVEN'T NEEDED ONE
BEFORE.
>> THAT'S RIGHT.
THE SUPREME COURT MAY MAKE THAT
HAPPEN BECAUSE IF THEY COME OUT
AND DECIDE THAT STATES THAT HAD
NOT SET UP THEIR OWN EXCHANGE
BUT SET UP A FEDERAL EXCHANGE,
CAN'T GIVE SUBSIDIES, THAT'S
GOING TO PUT A LOT OF PRESSURE
ON THE STATES THEMSELVES, THE
REPUBLICAN GOVERNORS THERE, THE
REPUBLICAN LEGISLATORS THERE TO
FIGURE OUT WHAT THEY HAVE TO DO
WITH THAT.
THE CONGRESS AND PRESIDENT WILL
HAVE A ROLE IN IT BUT A LOT OF
THE FOCUS WILL BE ON THE STATE.
>> YOU TAKE MIKE PENCE IN
INDIANA, HE HAS BEEN CREATED IN
TERMS OF HOW YOU HAVE FIGURE OUT
THE MEDICAID SUBSIDY AND DO YOUR
OWN THING IN THE STATE, SOMEBODY
LIKE SCOTT WALKER, SAME THING.
I THINK THE EYES ARE ON OTHER
PEOPLE, LIKE WHAT DOES SOMEBODY
LIKE BOBBY JINDAL AND CHRIS
CHRISTIE DO.
>> Ifill: IT'S ABOUT
POSITIONING.
NIA-MALIKA, "WASHINGTON POST,"
AMY, POLITICAL REPORT, THANK
YOU.
JOURNALIST RELEASED YESTERDAY
AFTER BEING JAILED IN EGYPT FOR
MORE THAN A YEAR, SPOKE FOR THE
FIRST TIME TODAY ABOUT HIS
ORDEAL.
WHILE IN CAIRO, A JUDGE
SENTENCED NEARLY 200 MUSLIM
BROTHERHOOD SUPPORTERS TO DEATH.
JEFFREY BROWN REPORTS.
>> I CAN'T TELL YOU HOW RELIEVED
I AM AT BEING FREE, I REALLY
DIDN'T EXPECT IT.
>> Brown: IT WAS THE FIRST FULL
DAY OF FREEDOM FOR PETER GRESTE,
THE "AL-JAZEERA" JOURNALIST
RELEASED YESTERDAY AFTER 400
DAYS IN A CAIRO JAIL.
BUT IN CYPRUS TODAY, HE SAID HIS
OWN JOY AT BEING RELEASED IS
MIXED WITH FEARS ANGST FOR TWO
COLLEAGUES WHO REMAIN IMPRISONED
IN EGYPT.
>> AMIDST ALL OF THIS RELIEF, I
STILL FEEL A SENSE OF CONCERN, A
REAL SENSE OF WORRY, BECAUSE IF
IT'S APPROPRIATE FOR ME, IF IT'S
RIGHT FOR MEO BE T FREE, THEN
IT'S RIGHT FOR ALL OF THEM TO BE
FREE.
>> Brown: GRESTE, ALONG WITH
CANADIAN-EGYPTIAN MOHAMMED FEH-
MEE AND EGYPTIAN NATIONAL BAHER
MOHAMED, WERE ARRESTED IN
DECEMBER 2013 OVER THEIR
COVERAGE OF A CRACKDOWN ON
ISLAMIST PROTESTS.
THE THREE WERE ACCUSED OF
PROVIDING A PLATFORM FOR
PRESIDENT MOHAMMED MORSI'S
MUSLIM BROTHERHOOD AFTER MORSI
WAS OVERTHROWN BY THE MILITARY.
SEPARATELY, IN A CAIRO COURTROOM
TODAY SUPPORTERS OF THE
BROTHERHOOD CHANTED IN PROTEST,
AS A JUDGE SENTENCED ALL 183 OF
THEM TO DEATH.
THEY WERE CONVICTED OF PLAYING A
ROLE IN KILLING 16 POLICE
OFFICERS IN THE WAKE OF MORSI'S
OUSTER.
IT WAS THE LATEST IN A SERIES OF
MASS TRIALS AND DEATH SENTENCES
THAT HAVE DRAWN INTERNATIONAL
CONDEMNATION.
INCLUDING TODAY, AT THE STATE
DEPARTMENT IN WASHINGTON.
>> IT SIMPLY SEEMS IMPOSSIBLE
THAT A FAIR REVIEW OF EVIDENCE
AND TESTIMONY COULD BE ACHIEVED
THROUGH MASS TRIALS.
WE CONTINUE TO CALL ON THE
GOVERNMENT OF EGYPT TO ENSURE
DUE PROCESS FOR THE ACCUSED ON
THE MERITS OF INDIVIDUAL CASES
FOR ALL EGYPTIANS AND
DISCONTINUE THE PRACTICE OF MASS
TRIALS.
>> Brown: EGYPTIAN OFFICIALS
ALSO FACE ACCUSATIONS THAT
DURING PROTESTS LAST WEEK,
POLICE KILLED AT LEAST 27
PEOPLE.
ONE OF THEM WAS 32-YEAR-OLD
ACTIVIST AND MOTHER SHAIMA
SABBAGH.
PRESIDENT ABDEL FATTAH EL-SISSI
SAID TODAY HE WAS PAINED BY
SABBAGH'S DEATH, AND PROMISED AN
INVESTIGATION.
WE INVITED EGYPT'S AMBASSADOR TO
THE UNITED STATES TO APPEAR ON
TONIGHT'S PROGRAM.
THE EMBASSY DID NOT RESPOND TO
OUR REQUEST.
JOINING US NOW FROM CAIRO IS
BORZOU DARAGAHI.
MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA
CORRESPONDENT FOR "THE FINANCIAL
TIMES."
BORZOU, THERE'S BEEN CONJECTURE
THAT THE RELEASE OF PETER GRESTE
WAS TIED TO AL JAZEERA'S CLOSING
OF ITS EGYPTIAN CHANNEL.
WHAT'S KNOWN ABOUT WHAT LED TO
HIS RELEASE?
>> WE KNOW THERE HAVE BEEN
INTENSE NEGOTIATIONS ON MULTIPLE
PLANES.
THERE HAVE BEEN ONGOING TALKS IN
DOHAR AND OTHER PARTS OF THE
ARABIAN PENINSULA, OTHER CITIES
BETWEEN EGYPTIAN, SAUDI AND AM
RATTY OFFICIALS FOR MONTHS NOW
IN AN ATTEMPT TO WORK OUT THIS
CONFLICT THAT HAS CREATED THIS
BREECH BETWEEN QATAR ON THE ONE
HAND AN EXTENT,
ALTHOUGH TURKEY WAS NOT INVOLVED
IN THE TALKS, AND THE OTHER
SO-CALLED PRO U.S. MODERATE ARAB
STATES, AND THAT THESE TALKS
HAVE INCLUDED, FOR EXAMPLE,
LAWYERS, INTERNATIONAL LAWYERS
WORKING ON VARIOUS ISSUES
INCLUDING THE BILLIONS OF
DOLLARS NOW FROM QATAR THAT ARE
IN THE CENTRAL BANK OF EGYPT,
AND WE ALSO KNOW THAT THERE'S
BEEN INTENSE ATTEMPT BY
CANADIAN, AUSTRALIAN AND OTHER
WESTERN OFFICIALS TRYING TO GET
THIS ISSUE RESOLVED, TO GET
THESE JOURNALISTS FREED, AND
THIS HAS BEEN GOING ON FOR MANY
MONTHS NOWER.
EVERY SINGLE WESTERN DIPLOMAT
THAT'S COME HERE HAS RAISED THIS
ISSUE.
THE WESTERN JOURNALISTS AS WELL
AS MANY CIVIL LIBERTIES
N.G.O.s CONSTANTLY BRING UP
THE MATTERS OF THESE THREE
JOURNALISTS.
SO INTENSE PRESSURE ON THE
GOVERNMENT HERE.
>> Brown: WHAT'S THE
LIKELIHOOD OF THE OTHER TWO
AL-JAZEERA JOURNALISTS' RELEASE?
>> BASED ON THE INDICATIONS I'M
GETTING, IT LOOKS LIKE ONE OF
THEM, MOHAMED FEH-MEE, MAY WELL
WILL ON THE CONDITION HE WOULD
RENOUNCE EGYPTIAN CITIZENSHIP
AND LEAVE THE COUNTRY JUST AS A
CANADIAN CITIZEN.
THIS MUST BE A TOUGH DECISION
FOR HIM BECAUSE HE TRULY LOVES
EGYPT AND THIS MUST BE SUCH A
HARSH THING FOR HIM TO DO TO
HAVE TO RENOUNCE THAT EGYPTIAN
CITIZENSHIP.
AS FOR THE OTHER ONE, BAHER
MOHAMED, WE DON'T KNOW WHAT WILL
HAPPEN TO HIM.
HE'S BEEN SENTENCED TO TEN YEARS
IN PRISON AND HAS THREE
CHILDREN, ONE BORN WHILE HE WAS
IN CAPTIVITY, AND HE WOULD NOT
BE PART OF THE DEAL PETER GRESTE
GOT AND MOHAMED FEH-MEE MAY GET.
>> Brown: DOES PRESIDENT EL
SISI STILL HAVE A LOT OF PUBLIC
SUPPORT FOR THIS?
>> WELL, I THINK THAT HE DOES
HAVE A LOT OF PUBLIC SUPPORT.
I THINK, IN PART, THE LOCAL
MEDIA HERE IS SORT OF COMPLICIT
IN WHIPPING UP HYSTERIA, IN
MAKING A LOT OF INCITEMENT ON
AIR, IN WHIPPING UP ANGER FROM
THE PUBLIC DENS ANY KIND OF --
PUBLIC AGAINST ANY KIND OF
DISSIDENTS OR SECULAR ACTIVISTS
WHO CHALLENGE THE CURRENT STATUS
QUO.
TO I THINK THERE IS A LOT OF
SUPPORT FOR IT PUBLICLY, STILL,
BUT PERHAPS LESS THAN SIX MONTHS
AGO AS EGYPT'S ECONOMY, AT LEAST
THE MACROECONOMIC IMPROVEMENTS
WE HAVE BEEN SEEING, HAVE NOT
REALLY TRICKLED DOWN TO STREET
LEVEL YET.
>> Brown: WE SAW THE U.S.
STATE DEPARTMENT EXPRESSING
CONCERN AND ANGER OVER THERE.
IS OUR GOVERNMENT BEING HEARD?
DOES IT HAVE ANY INFLUENCE IN
THESE MATTERS?
>> I THINK IT DOES AND I THINK
THERE ARE WELL-MEANING PEOPLE
AROUND SISI AND PERHAPS SISI
HIMSELF WHO ARE AWARE OF HOW BAD
THESE THINGS LOOK, THESE MASS
SENTENCING OF SCORES OF PEOPLE
TO DEATH, THESE CONTINUED
DETENTIONS OF PEOPLE INCLUDING
ONE PHOTOJOURNALIST WHO HAS BEEN
IN PRISON FOR 540 DAYS.
HIS MENTAL HEALTH IS FAILING AND
HE SPENDS MOST OF HIS DAYS
SITTING IN THE CORNER OF THE
CELL BASICALLY JUST SUFFERING
AND HAS NOT YET BEEN FORMALLY
CHARGED WITH A CRIME YET.
BUT I THINK THERE ARE FORCES
WITHIN THE SECURITY
ESTABLISHMENT AND THE JUDICIARY
AND THE INTERIOR MINISTRY AND
INTELLIGENCE SERVICES WHO HAVE A
VERY HARD LINE APPROACH TO ANY
KIND OF OPPOSITION TO THE
CURRENT STATUS QUO.
>> Brown: BORZOU DARAGAHI,
FINANCIAL TIMES IN CAIRO, THANKS
SO MUCH.
>> BEEN A PLEASURE.
>> Ifill: THE MEASLES OUTBREAK
IN THE U.S. HAS N INFOWECTED
MORE THAN 100 PEOPLE IN JUST
OVER A MONTH.
THERE HAVE BEEN NO DEATHS, BUT
CASESAVE H BEEN REPORTED IN 14
STATES WITH THE OVERWHELMING
NUMBER IN CALIFORNIA.
WHERE PUBLIC HEALTH OFFICIALS
BELIEVE THE CURRENT OUTBREAK
BEGAN AT DISNEYLAND.
BUT JUST OVER A DOZEN YEARS AGO,
MEASLES WAS CONSIDERED
ERADICATED.
YET LAST YEAR, 600 CASES WERE
REPORTED MANY OF THEM IN
UNVACCINATED AMISH COMMUNITIES.
SKEPTICISM ABOUT THE USEFULNESS
OF VACCINES HAS LONG BEEN
GATHERING STEAM IN SOME CIRCLES.
FOR A LOOK AT WHAT STARTED IT
ALL, WE BRING YOU PART OF A
PIECE BY RETRO REPORT, A NON
PROFIT NEWS ORGANIZATION WHOSE
DOCUMENTARIES ARE DISTRIBUTED BY
"THE NEW YORK TIMES."
THE NARRATOR IS ZACHARY GREEN OF
NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
THE CURRENT VACCINE SCARES
AND CONTROVERSIES THAT WE'RE
STILL DEALING WITH TODAY STEM
FROM A 1998 PAPER THAT APPEARED
IN THE "LANCET" A VERY RESPECTED
MEDICAL JOURNAL PUBLISHED OUT OF
THE U.K.
>> THE PAPER WRITTEN BY
DR. ANDREW WAKEFIELD CLAIMED
THERE MIGHT BE A CONNECTION
BETWEEN THE MEASLES, MUMS,
RUBELLA VACCINE AND AUTISM.
>> IN HIS PRESS BRCHES, ANDREW
WAKEFID SELTOOD UP AND SAID
PARENTS SHOULD NOT GIVE THEIR
CHILDREN THE MMR VACCINE,
PERIOD, TILL WE GET TO THE
BOTTOM OF THIS.
>> THE MMR VACCINATION IN
COMBINATION, I THINK IT SHOULD
BE SUSPENDED IN FAVOR TO HAVE
THE SINGLE VACCINES.
>> THE NOTION YOU WOULD TAKE A
12-PERSON SKYS STUDY AND MAKE
CLAIMS ABOUT A POPULATION AS A
WHOLE IS RIDICULOUS.
THIS PAPER WAS HISTORICALLY BAD,
AND WHAT THE MEDIA IN THE U.K.
DID WAS THEY RAN WITH THAT.
>> IT'S A DILEMMA.
YOU KNOW, THAT'S A
SENSATIONAL STORY.
>> Reporter: FOLLOW-UP STORIES
OF HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS OF
CHILDREN COULD NOT FIND EVIDENCE
THE MMR CAUSES AUTISM.
IT WAS FOUND HE DISTORTED DATA
AND ACTED UNETHICALLY.
>> HE LOST HIS LICENSE, THE
LANCET PAPER HASH RETRACTED.
HE REPOSITIONED HIMSELF AS A
MARTYR AND IN SOME ODD WAY EVERY
PIECE OF EVIDENT THAT COMES OUT
AGAINST WAKEFIELD SORT OF
SOLIDIFIES IN THE COMMUNITY THAT
PAYS ATTENTION TO HIM.
>> COMPLICATED SCIENCE PROVED
DIFFICULT FOR PUBLIC HEALTH
INSTITUTIONS TO COMMUNICATE.
WHEN RESPONSE WAS RAISED OVER A
VACCINE THAT INCLUDED MERCURY.
>> CHILDREN GET MERCURY INJECTED
INTO THEIR BODIES.
>> A KNOWN NEURAL TOXIN.
BUT NOT THE SAME AS METHYL
MERCURY WHICH IS FOUND IN FISH
SERIOUS AND THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
OF PEDIATRICS RECOMMENDED THE
DRUG BE REMOVED AND THE
MESSAGING BACKFIRED.
>> IN 1999 HEALTH OFFICIALS
DENIED THE LINK BETWEEN THE
VACCINES AND AUTISM EPIDEMIC YET
URGED THE VACCINE MAKERS TO TAKE
OUT THE MERCURY TO BE SAFE.
>> WHAT THE AMERICAN ACADEMY OF
PEDIATRICS SAID IS WE ARE
RECOMMENDING THE STEP TO MAKE
SAFE VACCINES EVEN SAFER.
AS A PARENT, IF YOU TELL ME
SOMETHING SAFE, I DON'T THINK
THAT'S ON A SLAYING SCALE.
I ASSUME THAT IF YOU SAY IT'S
SAFE, IT IS SAFE FOR MY
CHILD,ETH NOT SAFE, SAFER OR
SAFEST.
THERE ARE ALMOST TWO LANGUAGES
HERE.
THERE'S THE LANGUAGE OF SCIENCE
AND THEN THERE'S ENGLISH.
IN THE LANGUAGE OF SCIENCE, YOU
HAVE THESE SIGNIFIERS, LIKE TO
THE BEST OF OUR KNOWLEDGE, AS
FAR AS WE KNOW, BASED ON THE
AVAILABLE SCIENTIFIC EVIDENCE,
BECAUSE YOU CAN'T SAY ANYTHING
WITH 1 PUN% -- YOU CAN'T PROVE A
NEGATIVE.
SO WHEN SCIENTISTS SPEAK IN
THEIR LANGUAGE AND THE REST OF
US TRANSLATE THAT INTO ENGLISH,
IT SOUNDS LIKE THEY'RE SAYING
SOMETHING VERY DIFFERENT THAN
THEY'RE SAYING.
>> Ifill: A CLARIFICATION,
WHEN THEY TALK ABOUT THE MMR
VACCINE, THEY'RE TALKING ABOUT
MUMPS, MEASLES AND RUBELLA.
PRESIDENT OBAMA ECHOED THE KERNS
OF HEALTH OFFICIALS YESTERDAY
WHEN HE SAID IN AN INTERVIEW
THAT CHILDREN SHOULD BE
VACCINATED.
JOINING ME IS PATRICIA
STINCHFIELD, DIRECTOR OF
INFECTION PREVENTION AND CONTROL
FOR THE CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL AND
CLINICS OF MINNESOTA.
WELCOME.
THANK YOU FOR JOINING US.
HOW DOES THIS OUTBREAK COMPARE
TOLL WHAT WE HAVE SEEN IN THE
PAST?
SHOULD WE BE REALLY WORRIED BY
THESE NUMBERS?
>> I THINK WE SHOULD BE
CONCERNED BY THE NUMBERS BECAUSE
THE SPREAD OF MEASLES IS SO EASY
TO HAPPEN AMONGST PEOPLE WHO ARE
UNIMMUNIZED.
THAT VIRUS CAN STAY ALOFT IN THE
AIR TWO HOURS AFTER SOMEONE WITH
MEASLES HAS WALKED THROUGH A
ROOM, WHETHER A LOBBY IN A
CLINIC, GROCERY STORE OR
FOOTBALL GAME, AND ANYONE WHO
COMES THROUGH THAT ROOM WHO IS
NOT IMMUNIZED WILL GET MEASLES,
90% OF UNIMMUNIZED WILL GET
MEASLES.
VERY CONTAINS.
I SPENT MY 27th YEAR OF MY
CAREER AT CHILDREN'S TRYING TO
EXPLAIN HOW DANGEROUS MEASLES
WAS.
WE HAD AN ENTIRE WARD FILLED
WITH MEASLES KIDS, TWO DIED.
EVER SINCE THEN I TRIED TO
COMMIT MYSELF AND CHILDREN'S AT
MINNESOTA HAS AS WELL TO THE
MESSAGE THAT MEASLES IS
DANGEROUS, MEASLES KILLS.
IT GETS IN THE LUNGS AND BRAIN,
IT IS NOT JUST A VIRUS.
THE VACCINE IS SAFE, EFFECTIVE,
IT WORKS AND SHOULD BE USED BY
PARENTS TO HELP PROTECT THEIR
CHILDREN.
>> Ifill: IS THERE ANY OTHER
REASON TO EXPLAIN THE SUDDEN
RETURN OF MEASLES OTHER THAN THE
FACT THAT PEOPLE DECIDED THAT
VACCINATIONS ARE NOT SAFE?
>> WELL, WE'RE A GLOBAL SOCIETY
AND WE DO KNOW THAT MEASLES
CASES IN THE UNITED STATES DO
HAVE AN INTERNATIONAL LINK,
OFTENTIMES.
BUT WE ALSO KNOW THAT, IN THE
LAST FEW YEARS, WE'VE SEEN A
DRAMATIC INCREASE IN MANY
COMMUNITIES OF PEOPLE OPTING OUT
OF VACCINES.
THIS IS A RECIPE FOR AN
OUTBREAK.
IF YOU HAVE A VULNERABLE
COMMUNITY AND AN INTRODUCTION OF
THE MEASLES VIRUS, YOU WILL HAVE
DISEASE, AND WE'RE SEEING THAT
COME OUT OF CALIFORNIA AND
SPREAD VERY QUICKLY THROUGH THE
UNITED STATES.
I THINK THE GOOD NEWS HERE IS
THAT IF WE DIDN'T HAVE 90% OF
PARENTS FOLLOWING THE USUAL
IMMUNIZATION SCHEDULE, WE
WOULDN'T BE TALKING ABOUT
HUNDREDS OF CASES, WE WOULD TALK
ABOUT THOUSANDS AND THOUSANDS OF
CASES.
>> THAT NUMBER CONFOUNDS ME.
IF 92, 90% OF PEOPLE ARE GETTING
THE VACCINATION, HOW DANGEROUS
IS THIS EXCEPT FOR A SMALL
SUBSET WHO ARE NOT?
>> WE ALWAYS HAVE VULNERABLE
POPULATIONS.
YOU CAN ONLY GET THE VACCINE
WHEN YOU'RE 12 MONTHS OF AGE AND
OLDER.
THAT'S THE FIRST DOSE.
LOTS OF BABIES ARE UNDER ONE
YEAR OF AGE AND THE SPECIAL
VULNERABLE VALLEY IS FROM SIX
MONTHS TO 12 MONTHS WHERE MOM'S
ANTIBODIES HAVE DROPPED UHOFF
AND THEY'RE NOT OLD ENOUGH FOR
THE VACCINES SO 6-12 MONTHS ARE
VULNERABLE.
PREGNANT WOMEN CAN HAVE
MISCARRIAGES IF THEY GET THE
MEASLES, AND PEOPLE WITH
CHEMOTHERAPY OR CANCER ARE
HIGHLY SUSCEPTIBLE TO A MEASLES
OUTBREAK.
>> Ifill: HOW DOES THIS
COMPARE TO EBOLA, FLU.
>> THEY'RE ALL VIRUSES AND CON
STAGES.
BUT THERE IS NOTHING AS CON
STAGES AS MEASLES.
FLU IS NEXT, H.I.V. BELOW THAT,
AND EBOLA IS THE LOWEST IN TERMS
OF VIRAL CONTAGEN.
IT'S VERY DIFFICULT TO GET
EBOLA.
IT'S VERY EASY TO GET MEASLES.
BOTH CAN TAKE PEOPLE'S LIVES,
HOWEVER.
THERE'S A VACCINE FOR MEASLES,
MEASLES, MUMPS, RUBELLA, AND
THERE IS NOT A VACCINE FOR
EBOLA.
AT THIS POINT IN TIME, THERE'S
NO REASON FOR PARENTS NOT TO
VACCINATE THEIR CHILDREN AND
PROTECT THEM AGAINST MEASLES.
>> ARE THERE OTHER DISEASES
WHERE CHOOSING NOT TO HAVE A
VACCINE HAS SHOWN THAT DISEASE
IS BACK OR ON THE RISE?
>> WE ARE DEFINITELY SEEING MORE
WHOOPING COUGH THAN WE HAVE
BEEN.
THERE'S BEEN SPREAD OF WHOOPING
COUGH OR PERTUSSIS THROUGHOUT
THE COUNTRY IN THE LAST FEW
YEARS.
THAT VACCINE IS NOT QUITE AS
EFFECTIVE AS MEASLES VACCINE,
BUT ALSO THE SPREAD IS GOING
THROUGH COMMUNITIES OF THOSE WHO
ARE OPTING OUT OF VACCINES.
WE ARE SEEING AN INCREASE IN
THAT AS WELL.
>> FINALLY AND BRIEFLY, WHAT ARE
THE SYMPTOMS THAT WE SHOULD BE
ON THE LOOKOUT FOR WHEN IT COMES
TO MEASLES?
>> MEASLES ARE FEVER, RASH AND
THE THREE Cs -- COUGH,
CONJUNCTIONIVITIS OR PINK EYE
AND THEN RUNNY NOSE.
THE RASH LOOKS LIKE IT'S BEEN
POURED OVER THE HEAD AND GOES
DOWN ON THE TRUNK.
GET IN AND GET SEEN IF THAT'S
THE RASH YOU'RE SEEING.
>> Ifill: DR. PATRICIA
STINCHFIELD, CHILDREN'S
HOSPITALS AND CLINICS OF
MINNESOTA.
THANKS VERY MUCH.
>> THANKS FOR HAVING ME.
>> Ifill: ONE OF THE MOST
HONORED MOVIES OF THE YEAR, AND
A LEADING CANDIDATE FOR SEVERAL
OSCARS IS "BOYHOOD," A FILM BY
AN INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR WITH A
UNIQUE STYLE OF TELLING STORIES.
JEFF SPOKE WITH HIM RECENTLY, AS
PART OF OUR OCCASIONAL FEATURE,
NEWSHOUR GOES TO THE MOVIES.
YES!
ALL RIGHT.
ALL RIGHT, DON'T WORRY ABOUT IT.
>> IN MOST FILMS, THE AGING OF
CHARACTERS IS A SLIGHT OF HAND.
SUGGESTED THROUGH MAKEUP OF
USING MULTIPLE ACTORS.
IN "BOYHOOD," THE PASSAGE OF
TIME IS REAL.
DIRECTOR RICHARD LINKLATER SHOT
THE FILM OVER THE COURSE OF 12
YEARS, ANNUALLY GATHERING HIS
FOUR LEADING ACTORS TOGETHER FOR
A FEW DAYS TO SHOOT SCENES AND
TELL THE STORY OF A YOUNG BOY
NAMED MASON PLAYED BY ELLER
COLTRANE FROM AGES 6 TO 18.
>> HOW MUCH CAN YOU PLAN FOR THE
NEXT 12 YEARS?
YOU CAN HAVE GOALS AND OUTLINE
OF WHAT YOU'RE WORKING TOWARD
WHICH IS CERTAINLY WHAT THE FILM
DID.
NIE THE LAST SHOT.
I KNEW WHERE I WANTED IT TO END,
BUT I DIDN'T REALLY -- YOU KNOW,
I'M CLAB RIGHT HERE WITH AN
UNKNOWN FUTURE LIKE WE ARE ALL
AT ALL TIMES SO IT HAD TO
INCORPORATE THAT INTO THE ACTUAL
STORYTELLING.
>> LINKLATER, AGE 54, HAS PLAYED
WITH TIME AND STORYTELLING OFTEN
IN HIS CAREER.
NOTABLY IN THE SO-CALLED
"BEFORE" TRILOGY.
BEFORE SUNRISE, BEFORE SUNSET
AND BEFORE MIDNIGHT, WHICH TELLS
THE STORY OF A ROMANCE BETWEEN
TWO CHARACTERS PLAYED BY JULIE
AND ETHAN AS THEY GROW OLDER.
>> I THINK THE BOOK I WROTE IN A
WAY IS LIKE BUILDING SOMETHING
SO I WOULDN'T FORGET THE DETAILS
OF THE TIME THAT WE SPENT
TOGETHER.
>> I'VE ALWAYS BEEN OBSESSED
WITH CINEMATIC NARRATIVE AND
STORYTELLING.
THE ARTIFICLALIIATY OF SO MUCH
PLOT ALWAYS BUGGED ME SO I THINK
I'VE KIND OF NATURALLY TENDED
TOWARD TIME STRUCTURES BECAUSE I
THINK THAT'S CLOSER TO HOW WE
ACTUALLY PROCESS TEAM AND THE
WAY WE PERCEIVE THE WORLD AND
EVEN OUR OWN -- THE WAY WE DRIFT
THROUGH, YOU KNOW, A DAY, A
YEAR, OR A LIFE, YOU KNOW, IS --
IT'S KIND OF TIME-BASED.
I THINK IT'S ONE OF THE
FUNDAMENTALS OF MY CINEMATIC
THINKING.
IT MUST BE BECAUSE I KEEP
PLAYING AROUND IT.
I DON'T INTELLECTUALIZE IT TOO
MUCH.
>> I'M REALIZING MY LIFE IS JUST
GOING TO GO, LIKE THAT.
A SERIES OF MILESTONES --
GETTING MARRIED, HAVING KIDS,
GETTING DIVORCED --
>> WHAT DOES THAT MEAN, THOUGH,
THE ARTIFICIALALITY OF FILM?
>> IT'S NOT INHERENT TO FILM.
IT'S INHERENT IN STORYTELLING IN
GENERAL, DEPENDING ON HOW YOU
APPROACH IT.
I THINK THE THREE-ACT STRUCTURE
IS AN ARTIFICE, A LOT OF PLOT
POINTS THAT WORK SO WELL IN A
THRILLER, YOU KNOW, THAT DOESN'T
HAPPEN IN MOST OUR LIVES BUT
THERE ARE BEAUTIFUL CONSTRUCTS.
BUT ALL FILM IS A CONSTRUCT.
IT'S JUST WHAT YOU WANT, HOW YOU
WANT TO BE PERCEIVED AND HOW YOU
WANT AN AUDIENCE TO TAKE IN YOUR
PARTICULAR STORY.
IF YOU'RE NOT -- I'M OFTEN GOING
FOR AERY V REALISTIC.
I WANT AN AUDIENCE TO LOSE
THEMSELVES IN THE STORY I'M
TRYING TO TELL AND MAKE IT FEEL
LIKE IT FEELS LIKE YOUR OWN LIFE
TO SOME DEGREE.
CINEMA CAN BE ANYTHING.
LET'S FACE IT, IT'S WONDERFUL.
IT'S THE GREATEST STORYTELLING
MEDIUM EVER.
I'VE DONE A LOT OF MOVIES.
EACH HAS ITS OWN REQUIREMENT.
>> Brown: "BOYHOOD" IS FILLED
WITH SCENES THAT FEEL LIKE REAL
LIFE SOMETIMES IN ALL ITS
AWKWARDNESS.
AS HERE WHEN ETHAN HAWKE PLAYING
THE DIVORCED DAD PICKS UP HIS
CHILDREN.
>> HOW WAS YOUR DAY.
FUN.
WHAT DID YOU DO.
NOTHING REALLY.
STILL WORKING ON THE SNROJT.
YES.
HOW IS IT?
ALL FINISHED.
COMES FROM THE DID I WAS ONCE
TALKING A LOT WITH MY DAD WHO
WOULD PICK ME UP ON THE WEEKEND
AND OUR BEST CONVERSATIONS WERE
IN THE CAR BECAUSE YOU'RE JUST
IN THE CAR -- I LIVE AN HOUR AND
A HALF AWAY SO WE WOULD SPEND
THE HOREURS A WEEKEND DRIVING
AND THAT WAS THE BEST
CONVERSATION.
>> THAT IS NOT HOW WE ARE GOING
TO TALK TO ONE ANOTHER.
I WILL NOT BE THAT GUY.
YOU CANNOT PUT ME IN THAT
CATEGORY, ALL RIGHT, THE
BIOLOGICAL FATHER, I SPEND EVERY
OTHER WEEK WITH HIM AND MAKE
POLITE CONVERSATION, YOU KNOW,
WHILE HE DRIVES ME PLACES AND
BUYS ME -- NO.
>> IT'S FUN TO SEE HIM SORT OF
FIGURING OUT FATHERHOOD AND
BEING A VERY CONSCIENTIOUS
PARENT AND TRYING TO HARD.
IT'S ENDEARING.
ETHAN AND I ARE VERY SIMILAR IN
THAT WAY THAT, YOU KNOW, OUR
PARENTS WERE DIVORCED AND WE
HAVE THESE RELATIONSHIP BOTH IN
OUR PAST AND TO VARYING DEGREES
IN OUR PRESENT.
SO, YOU KNOW, A THEME LIKE THAT
COMES UP PRETTY NATURAL FOR US.
>> Brown:LINK TER GETS IDEAS
FROM HIS ACTORS INCLUDING THE
ONE YUNS BUT HE SAYS IT'S NOT
IMPROVED.IS
>> I NEVER HAVE IMPROVISED
REALLY.
THERE'S A COUEPL OF MOMENTS EVEN
IN "BOYHOOD" WHEN I KNEW WHAT
THEY WERE GOING TO SAY.
I WAS ON SUBJECT AND I HAD TWO
CAMERAS, AND IN ONE CASE, IT'S A
CAMP FIRE SCENE WHERE ETHAN AND
ELLER ARE TALKING ABOUT TO
PENSIONLE FUTURE "STAR WARS"
MOVIE IF THERE EVER WAS GOING TO
BE ONE.
>> YOU THINK THEY WILL EVER MAKE
ANOTHER "STAR WARS"?
>> I DON'T THINK.
I THINK IF THEY WERE TO MAKE
ANOTHER ONE THAT THE PERIOD IT
WAS SET IS WHERE IT WOULD HAVE
TO BE BECAUSE THERE'S NOTHING
AFTER REALLY.
YEAH, RETURN OF JEDI WAS OVER.
>> YEAH, ALREADY BEEN THERE.
I KNEW WHAT THEY WOULD TALK
ABOUT IN GENERAL, I THINK IT HAD
TO BE SCRIPTED.
BUT EVERYTHING OTHER THAN THAT
IS VERY SCRIPTED AND REHEARSED
AND PLANNED OUT.
IT HAS TO BE VERY TIGHT FOR ME
TO MAKE IT SEEM LOOSE.
I WOULDN'T KNOW HOW TO TURN ON
THE CAMERA AND SEE WHAT HAPPENS.
>> ONE TIME I HAD LUNCH WITH
TOLSTOY, ANOTHER TIME A ROADY
FOR ZAPPA.
>> Brown: RICHARD SCORED EARLY
HITS LIKE SLACKER IN 1991 AND IN
199 P DAZED AND CONFUSED.
>> I WANT THAT PIECE OF PAPER ON
MY DESK BEFORE YOU LEAVE HERE
TODAY, DO YOU HEAR ME!
>> Brown: IN A WORLD OF
BLOCKBUSTERS MADE FOR FAR MORE
MONEY --
>> MR. BERNIE TEADHAM --
>> Brown: HE BUILT A CAREER OF
SMALLER, MORE PERSONAL FILMS.
>> A LOOK AT THE FILMS PEOPLE
ARE TALKING ABOUT ATTEND OF THE
YEAR HERE WOULD DEFINITELY FALL
INTO PERSONAL VISIONS FROM
DIRECTORS AND, YOU KNOW, THEY'RE
NOT BIG, MANUFACTURED
ENTERTAINMENTS, BUT THEY ARE --
YOU KNOW, THEY SIX SEED IN THEIR
OWN WAY.
SO THERE'S ALWAYS A LOT OF FILMS
LIKE THAT.
HOLLYWOOD IS MORE -- I WOULD
THINK THEIR BUSINESS MODEL
CHANGED.
THEY'RE STRUCTURED BECAUSE OF
THE COST TO ONLY DO BIGGER FILMS
SO THEY'VE KIND OF ABDICATED THE
MIDDLE GROUND OF THE FILMS THEY
USED TO DO OR HAVE COMPLETELY
DONE KIND OF OUTSIDE THEIR
SYSTEM.
THEY WILL STILL DISTRIBUTE THEM,
THOUGH.
IT'S ALWAYS CHANGING, BUT THE
BOTTOM LINE, IT'S ALWAYS A GOOD
YEAR FOR MOVIES.
THERE'S ALWAYS A TON OF GREAT
MOVIES, MORE THAN YOU WILL HAVE
TIME TO SEA WORLDWIDE, AND
PEOPLE WILL ALWAYS WANT TO MAKE
MOVIES THAT MEAN A LOT TO THEM
PERSONALLY.
>> Brown: "BOYHOOD," RICHARD
LINKLATER IS THE DIRECTOR.
THANKS FOR TALKING WITH US.
>> GOOD TO BE WITH YOU.
>> Ifill: JEFF CONTINUES HIS
CONVERSATION WITH RICHARD
LINKLATER ONLINE, WHERE THE
DIRECTOR RECOMMENDS FIVE OF HIS
FAVORITE FILMS.
FIND THAT LIST ON OUR HOME PAGE,
pbs.org/newshour.
>> Ifill: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY,
WASHINGTON'S ANNUAL STRUGGLE
OVER TAXES AND SPENDING
PRIORITIES BEGAN IN EARNEST, AS
PRESIDENT OBAMA UNVEILED A FOUR
TRILLION DOLLAR BUDGET.
REPUBLICANS MOSTLY DISMISSED THE
PLAN.
FOR THE SECOND STRAIGHT WEEK, A
MAJOR WINTER STORM SOCKED THE
NORTHEAST AND NEW ENGLAND, AFTER
DUMPING HEAVY SNOW IN CHICAGO.
AND WALL STREET GAINED GROUND TO
START THE WEEK.
A RISE IN OIL PCES RIHELPED
ENERGY STOCKS AND PUSHED THE DOW
INDUSTRIALS UP BY NEARLY 200
POINTS.
AND FORMER HIP HOP MUSIC
EXECUTIVE MARION SUGE KNIGHT WAS
CHARGED WITH MURDER IN A HIT AND
RUN INCIDEN THAT KILLED A MAN
LAST WEEK IN LOS ANGELES.
AND THAT'S THE NEWSHOUR FOR
TONIGHT.
ON TUESDAY, WE TRAVEL TO WEST
VIRGINIA TO EXAMINE HOW
INNOVATIVE EFFORTS IN EDUCATION
MAY BREAK CYCLES OF POVERTY.
I'M GWEN IFILL.
WE'LL SEE YOU ON-LINE, AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING, FOR ALL
OF US HERE AT THE PBS NEWSHOUR,
THANK YOU AND GOOD NIGHT.